---
layout: post
title: Chapter 4 - Running
author: Gale Proulx
published: false
categories:

- Recounting of Steel
---

Fade fell to the ground in disbelief. They weren't there. Just like that, her parents were gone. Tears started to well in her eyes. What the hell had just happened? Parents aren't supposed to just disappear like that. It's against the rules of something. Children are supposed to have a home to go to. A safe place to land. No matter how many guards she encountered, creepy teachers she had to tolerate, home was supposed to be a constant; a safeguard. That fence was just torn down and she had never felt so vulnerable.

"Fade?" Terra said far far off in the distance.

It was hard for Fade to hear her. Hell, it was hard to hear anything. Life just slammed her flat onto her back. Unsure of what to do, Fade lied on the floor with her knees tucked in. Forcing her eyes closed she tried to block out the world. It was all too much. Fifth Division authorities defiled the sanctity of this home.

A hand touched her side. She didn't move. What was Terra going to do, kidnap her? What did she have to lose? The world felt like it was spinning around her while her chest seized up. It was hard to breath. It was far too easy to cry.

"Fade we cannot stay here. We don't know if the guards will come back looking for you," Terra pointed out.

Fade stayed on the ground curled up like an egg.

"Please get up," Terra pleaded. "Not going to move? Fine, just don't resist."

An arm snaked its way past Fade's belly as Terra hoisted her over a shoulder. Fade didn't both moving. There was no point.

"Jeez, I did say don't resist but could you not act like a dead weight?" Terra joked. She didn't get any response but sniffling. "Right, let's get going."

Out in the dead of night everything was silent—not that Fade could tell. 
