---
layout: post
title: Chapter 8 - The Choice
author: Gale Proulx
published: true
categories:
  - Unintentional Calamity
---

Chelsen spent the night in Myrian’s loft as she fed him remedy after remedy on hopes that something would slow or reverse the bruising that was spreading over Chelsen’s body. Mith was sent home as he started to become a nuisance constantly asking Myrian questions until she finally snapped and told him he was making things worse. The night was not nice to Chelsen. He did not go to sleep as his body felt like it was burning on the inside. Despite his desire for more blankets, his skin felt cold.

When morning finally arrived, he had managed to put his mind at rest as his body calmed down enough to just be uncomfortably warm. As Chelsen looked over at Myrian, he noticed that she too was forming a black bruise on her forehead. Reaching up to his own forehead, he felt part of his head become unnaturally soft. When he let his hand down black flakes slowly floated through the air. It didn’t look like his condition was getting any better.

Getting down from the loft, Chelsen opened up the front door to see most of Iris gathered around the center of the village. While this wouldn’t have been tradition thirty days ago, it was now a sight all too common. Scholar had dreamed of the day all Schools of Reasoning would spend more time talking to each other, but Chelsen imagined no scholar wished for this dream to be achieved under these conditions.

Everyone stopped talking as Chelsen walked to the center of the crowd.

“I have something I would like to say,” Chelsen announced. The crowd stayed silent. “I realize the most concerning thing about yesterday for all of you is that I returned with symptoms of this plague. While I wish I could put your minds at rest and say that is the worst of our problems, I sadly cannot report this.” Many scholars eyebrows raised with the statement. “I traveled near Volida’s Peak yesterday, and I found two disturbing things. First, the entrance into Volida’s Peak that we used is gone.”

“What do you mean gone?” someone asked at the edge of the crowd.

“Exactly that. It looks like it never existed. There is a cliff where there was once an entrance.” Looks of doubt were cast all around Chelsen. He took a few deep breaths before moving on. “Secondly, the forest is also dying. The plague has already reached Volida’s Peak. I do not know if it will travel here but if it does, everyone will most certainly perish.”

Unsurprisingly, Togtha jumped into the center of the crowd with Chelsen taking charge of the conversation. “If that is not a call for us to leave Iris then I don’t know what is!”

A hand rested on Chelsen’s shoulder. It was a very tired looking Myrian. “You shouldn’t be up and about. Come on, back to my house. I have a couple of more things I want to try to heal you this morning.” With those words the both of them retreated back into Myrian’s house as the commotion started up. Voices were starting to become restrained and even in the house they could still hear faint voices of the growing argument outside.

“You have a real knack for making people panic, you know that?” Myrian stated as she started gathering more herbs from her supply. Chelsen could never recall her being so lose with her use of herbs. Normally villagers of Iris had to beg her to make some medicine stronger as she hated wasting supplies. Seeing her grab herbs by the handful was almost terrifying. “You just sit tight and I’ll have something ready.”

As the minutes passed by Chelsen couldn’t stand waiting in silence with all the tense energy spreading throughout the village. “Myrian,” Chelsen said breaking the silence, “what I said earlier, did that surprise you?”

She lifted her head from a notebook and looked up at her ceiling. After many long sighs and opening her mouth with no words coming out she answered, “frankly, no. Had you said this too me least season, I think this would have terrified me. With the way things are lately, an entrance disappearing is just about as bizarre as a meteor traveling upward. I think that is what makes this situation so disturbing.”

Disturbing, thought Chelsen. That seemed like a particularly appropriate word for the situation. None of this would have been shocking had it not been all mysterious. Unfortunately, not a single piece had fallen into place. As the two recounted everything that had happened within the past thirty days they both felt increasingly sick. While Chelsen’s bruise was slowly and consistently spreading, Myrian’s bruise seemed to be spreading at a rapid rate. By the end of the day half her head was almost covered in a black bruise.

At sunset Mith knocked on the door. Myrian got up to open the door but quickly sat back in her seat too dizzy to get up. Chelsen, feeling slightly better than her, got up and opened the door. When Mith saw Myrian his face filled with dread yet again. “Wow, you two don’t look great.”

“Thank you, a kick to ego is exactly what I needed right now,” Myrian responded.

“I’m sorry, I didn’t mean…” Mith’s voice trailed off. “Alright, time for the both of you to get some rest. I’ll take care of you now.” He helped both of them up to the loft despite the protests that they were okay. Mith kept the fire roaring (and noted that they should be thankful they have this much firewood in the first place) and gathered as many blankets as he could to cover the both of them up.  As Myrian and Chelsen slept up on the loft, Mith made himself a makeshift bed on the ground next to the fire.

As the night continued Chelsen’s mind raced. He couldn’t bear another night of resting. Whatever situation they were in now, it was only going to get worse. From Litir’s description, it didn’t sound like anyone would survive this sickness. Rather than staying the night, Chelsen took his time slowly moving out from under the blankets and down the loft. The whole process must have taken an hour as Mith would occasionally almost snort himself awake. Chelsen did not want anybody to stop him. He wasn’t sure what was going on, but he did know there was one thing that was consistently strange about the whole situation: the room inside Volida’s Peak. He could not accept the entrance disappearing as yet another coincidence. Even if it took him every last breath he had, Chelsen was determined to find out what was so special about that room.

When he finally made it back to his house, he gathered his leather bag and took a piece of parchment off the one table they had in their house. Slipping out a quill, Chelsen wrote Mith a letter.

*Dear Father,*

*While I realize you have your reasons for not assisting in the search for a solution to the current predicament, I cannot simply agree. Everyone villager of Iris holds a responsibility to help each other. Inaction is not acceptable in this situation. In fact, I would say inaction is actually hurting our chances of surviving.*

*If you truly understand that I do feel this way, you’ll know why I left on by own accord. I am going to search for a solution. I wish you the best of luck.*

*Chelsen*

Looking down at the letter he grinned. All these years spent around scholars and reading countless research reports had really influenced the way he wrote. He almost sounded like a full blown scholar himself.

Taking one last look at his house, Chelsen set off for Volida’s Peak. The moon was waning on the horizon as Chelsen entered the dark forest looking for any sign of what to do next.
