---
layout: post
title: Chapter 5 - Trouble in the North
author: Gale Proulx
published: true
categories:
  - Unintentional Calamity
---

Parchment was scattered all over the lab as Fig and Lin worked on opening the sphere that was now sitting in the middle of one of the tables. A window sitting on the outer wall was dark revealing a night sky that two days ago showed a giant meteor crashing down somewhere north. Despite the strange anomaly, both Fig and Lin were much more concerned with finding out the secrets of the red sphere which they had now deemed “the artifact.”

“I have to thank you Lin for finally showing me this thing. It’s a lot easier working out a lock when you can actually see it.” Fig picked up the sphere and pocked and prodded at it was a pick.

Lin chuckled. At first they weren’t sure if it was a good idea to to show Fig the artifact. Most new technology Lin had seen introduced to the School of Technology was immediately confiscated. Had Lin shown this to some higher ups at the school, they would have most certainly done the same with this item, but Fig was different. She seemed much less interested in the politics of the school than most scholars. If Lin had to take a guess, Fig probably didn’t follow a lot of ethical guidelines as she did specialize in breaking into things there are not meant to be broken into.

“I just don’t get it. This is unlike anything I’ve ever seen.” Fig placed the sphere back at the center of the table. “Due to the insane precision of the lettering and even indents on the sphere, I would say this is the most advanced technology in all of Domhain.” Fig used her pick to point at the features she described. “Yet look here.” She flipped around the sphere to reveal a small amount of scuffing and rust. “That indicates that this could be very old. You said you found this in a building?”

Lin shifted uncomfortably in their chair. They hadn’t told Fig everything. Her question was definitely asking for more than he wanted to reveal, but their sheer frustration with this device was inclining them to just say everything.

“If I tell you this, you must swear to secrecy.” Lin looked Fig in the eyes. “You cannot tell this to anyone.”

“Really Lin?” Fig kept her eye contact. “We’ve been working on this project for nearly twenty days straight and you think now is the time I’ll start blurting out your secrets?” She took a scribbled on piece of parchment going over her notes. “Honestly, I’m a little offended. I’ve lost too many nights of sleep to not be committed to this.”

With a deep sigh, Lin relaxed. “Fine, you’re right. Sorry, I’m a little paranoid.”

“I don’t blame you. Anyone that has to work with Lorcan on a regular basis should be.” Fig didn’t bother looking up.

“You know about Lorcan? I’m impressed. Most people of Saol rarely keep up with what the council is doing. What do you-”

“Okay, my bad.” Fig interrupted. “Hard sidetrack there. Where did you find the artifact?”
Lin cursed under their breath. “Right, the artifact. Since you seem to be up to date no council decisions you should be aware I’m in charge of the housing expansion project.” Fig nodded in response. “Well, I wanted to scout out Last Stand Ruins for myself to see what I was dealing with. Those ruins are very unique as I’m sure you know. The School of Nature cannot deduce when the ruins were made, making it date back far before Saol ever existed. What material those ancient houses are made of I do not know, but they are very sturdy. Taking down those ruins will be a project within itself. It is indeed such a mysterious place.”

“And haunted. At least, that’s what everyone says,” Fig added.

“Yes, that is exactly what led me to this artifact. The main reason why everyone says the place is haunted is because of the well at the center of the ruins. Many skeletons of what look like ancient Umana remain untouched around the center of the well. It looks like those skeletons were all crawling towards the well. Curiosity led me to explore why this was. I guess I did something no one dared to do before: I went down the well.”
Fig’s eyes went wide with disbelief. “That is so sick! I’ve snuck into a lot of places but it never occurred to me to waltz into an ancient haunted well.”
Lin chuckled. “I admit, probably not the best idea. I couldn’t help myself! What I found there was unbelievable.” They paused for a moment re-imagining the scene. “Imagine a cave underground, but rather than being made by a natural process, someone sculpted the walls. It was almost like there was a massive house built underground.”
“What do you mean sculpted,” Fig asked.

“Just that. A room larger than I’ve ever seen with eerily smooth walls and floor existed as I used a rope to descend down the well. I almost didn’t have enough rope to reach the bottom! Strange machines so large and metallic were resting down there. Nothing like the School of Technology has ever made before.” Lin paused noticing the very confused look on Fig’s face.

She took a moment before asking, “how large was this? Scholars from the School of Science have made underground rooms before. This isn’t necessarily a new idea.”

Trying to not appear frustrated, Lin quietly sighed and pulled over a fresh piece of parchment. “I am aware that this has been done before, but not to this scale or near the accuracy.” Their pen started outlining a box at the edge of the parchment. “Say that this is the room.” At the top of the parchment Lin drew a little well entrance. “That would be how small the well was. Tiny compared to this room.” With a few strokes Lin tried to recreate to scale the structures they had found. They put a little person beside the structure to show just how small they were next to it. “Just the strange machines alone were taller than this floor. I might dare say you could fit the whole School of Science down there.”

The room filled with silence as Fig took in the new information. Most scholars were not comfortable with the idea that some things still existed far beyond their reach of knowledge. “Lin, you know what you are implying, right? This technology does not yet exist.”

“You said it yourself Fig, this sphere is already proof.” Lin placed the sphere between them. “If this level of precision is not possible and the object looks old, it may very well be an ancient technology. It did come from a mysterious ruins after all. We are also forgetting the weird red particles emanating from the sphere which has also never been seen before.”

“I have a bad feeling about this one Lin. First a meteor ascends into the sky, you show up with the artifact, then we see another meteor unexpected coming down brighter than ever. Something unnatural is taking place and I bet the School of Nature is going crazy.”
“I share those feelings, Fig. Everything about this makes absolutely no sense.” Lin got up from their seat and walked over to the window. “I wish I’d known what I got myself into.”

The night turned into day as Fig and Lin continued to poke and prod at the artifact with little success. Before the other scholars started milling around, they gathered their materials and stored them in Lin’s bag. They did not trust storing their progress anywhere in the school for fear that someone else might accidentally happen upon their discovery.

* * *

Later that afternoon Lin found themselves back in the council chamber giving an update on the housing expansion project. Fragments from buildings of the Last Stand Ruins were scattered on the council table. All the members were attentive except for Lorcan who looked like he was about to burst from his chair in frustration.

“As you can see, this material is very unusual. I have given it to the schools of Science and Technology to look at. I hope that maybe if they learn what the buildings are made of, not only can we take them down but maybe we can even build this new expansion with similar materials. They obviously hold up fairly well.”

Right as Lin finished his sentence Lorcan spoke up. “This is ridiculous! An utter outrage! How long do we have to wait for you just to tear down a couple of walls?”
“We have run into some unexpected obstacles but I’m sure we will still be on schedule in the future,” Lin stated.

“Although Lorcan seldom asks the right questions, I do have to agree with him,” the head of the council interjected. “We had set a deadline for the Last Stand Ruins to be taken down. That deadline was supposed to be met two days ago. How much longer do you think we will have to wait,” the head of the council asked.

Sweat started beading down Lin’s forehead. These meetings were getting progressively more stressful, especially with Lorcan grilling them at every turn. “I do not know.”
Before Lorcan could open his mouth the head of the council cut him off. “I am officially setting a deadline of forty days. If we do not see some houses being built by then, we will have to find someone else to head this project. I am sorry Lin, but we need this desperately.”

“Forty days? Why not remove him now?” Yet again Lorcan could not hold back. “Has no one else noticed how distracted Lin seems to be lately? I’ve seen him spending late nights at the School of Science and from what I can tell it has not been to work on this project.” The faintest smile appeared on Lorcan’s face as Lin’s was filled with dread.

Council members whispered to themselves with concern. The head of the council raised her hand. “Silence! This matter is over. Let us move to the next agenda item concerning the northern villages. It appears that Thymos has attempted to invade Modara. From what we can tell, the Thymos invasion failed. Do we wish to send reinforcements to Modara or Loch? I imagine Thymos will try to launch another attack quite soon.”

As the meeting continued Lin couldn’t shake of the feeling of dread, especially with Lorcan constantly emulating a mischievous smile in his direction.
