---
layout: post
title: Chapter 3 - Exploring the Peak
author: Gale Proulx
published: true
categories:
  - Unintentional Calamity
---

The sun had barely risen when Mith pushed Chelsen out of bed. “Time to get up kiddo. We have a long day ahead of us.” Mith stretched letting out a huge yawn. By the time Chelsen stirred out of bed and down the loft Mith had already prepared the cart with a couple of axes and breakfast.

Even though Iris was set on firewood for the fall, Mith was not content with their progress. In fact, Mith was never content with their progress. He took his job very seriously as if a lack of firewood in any household would be a fate worse than death. Chelsen never knew where this attitude came from before, but after Myrian’s story he guessed Mith never wanted another person to be harmed by his mistakes. At least, this was the only logical explanation Chelsen was able to come up with groggy and unable to break heavy eyelid syndrome.

As Mith and Chelsen pulled the cart through the forest the physical labor helped keep both of them awake. The sun was well over the hills by the time they reached the path that was currently under construction. They had been very specifically cutting trees this year to clear a path for a new road that was supposed to connect Frelia and Iris. As both villages grew, the scholars of Iris reluctantly agreed that better access between villages would promote healthy trade. Despite the stark contrast in culture, both sides agreed to make a road swinging south below the canyon  Chelsen now knew as Volida’s Peak.

The day’s work was long as Chelsen was tasked with felling trees and chopping them up while Mith loaded logs into the cart and transported them on foot back and forth from their house. It was slow work and it was even more difficult for Mith to keep up with Chelsen’s speedy chopping. Although Chelsen was the youngest Umana in Iris by far, he was getting progressively better at woodcutting without any formal study from the Schools of Reasoning.

As the sun started falling Chelsen asked Mith if he could stay and explore Volida’s Peak. To his surprise, Mith agreed.

“You can go off and play if you want, but never try to climb those cliffs. You hear me?” Mith pointed his finger close to Chelsen’s face. “I don’t want to find you broken next to the cliff face. You are all I have left.” Mith wrapped Chelsen in a bear hug and slowly pushed the cart full of chopped logs back towards the house. The cart has been pulled to and from their house so many times that a path was already starting to form.

In complete disbelief that he didn’t have to argue with Mith, Chelsen turned and walked towards the southern part of Volida’s Peak. He really wanted to find out what was hiding deep within the canyon’s carved into the steep cliffs. When he finally arrived Chelsen picked a random canyon to enter and explored. Despite the lack of sunlight, the ground was still covered with lots of bushes and small trees making it hard to push further and further through. Eventually the canyon closed off with a wall of hedges almost too perfectly covering the dead end.

Plagued with curiosity, Chelsen pushed through the hedges only to find a hallway carved through the cliff’s wall. Unlit torch holders lined each side of the hallway. It was impossible to tell how far the hallway went so Chelsen took a step inside and proceeded cautiously with one hand always on the left wall. He continued on even when the light faded as the darkness consumed all details around him. The hallway eventually twisted and turned making his progress even slower. The air thinned making it harder to breath as Chelsen had slowed down considerably trying to keep a hand on the wall and not trip on any of the bumps in the floor that seemed to randomly appear.

Chelsen completely lost track of time as he walked and walked throughout the winding hallway until it eventually started getting brighter. A faint pink glow in the distance illuminated a turn ahead. The color was quite odd. Chelsen had seen scholars from the School of Science manipulate the color fire before, but only momentarily as a little trick. Burning certain materials could cause this affect in the short-term, but a constant pink glow was unheard of. As Chelsen rounded the corner he gasped.

A massive, circular room was revealed with smooth, polished stone walls with unbelievable pictures carved into the walls. Darkness enveloped the ceiling making it look like it reached out into the night sky, yet there were no stars in sight nor the moon overhead. Inexplicably, a giant tree was growing in the middle of the room with shadows from the branches dancing on the walls to the flickering cyan light.

This room had never been mentioned to Chelsen. He wondered if anyone in Iris had ever bothered exploring this peak in the first place. The village was quite new, so he figured this new discovery wasn’t completely out of the question. Excitement tickled his brain as he thought of how proud his father would be knowing he made a discovery not even the School of Nature may have been aware of.

Not lacking in curiosity, Chelsen decided to look over at the flickering lights. The torch holders were similar to the ones he had seen in the hallway before. After closer inspection, he hadn’t noticed how perfect they looked. Each torch holder was identical from the last. The metal they were constructed from was eerily smooth. Not even the blacksmith of Iris could have constructed something so perfect as this which was quite concerning. The Iris blacksmith was one of the best in all of Domhain.

Cradled in the torch holder was a white transparent material. This too was oddly smooth to the touch. Behind the white material was a metal, blue glowing sphere. Blue particles flowed from out the indented line that divided the sphere in half. All across the two halves were inscriptions from a language Chelsen did not recognize. Even living in the town of Iris, the scholars in the School of Technology had never produced something so precise and complex.

As Chelsen lowered his hand towards the metal sphere the particles flowing out of the object seemed to react to his presence quickly changing direction away from his hand. Unable to hold back, Chelsen snatched the sphere and put it in his bag. He needed more answers, even if this was a sacred object. No one had ever mentioned this place, so Chelsen wanted some form of proof that he has found something so unusual.

All around the giant circular room torch holders held the same metal spherical objects emanating blue particles. The massive tree located at the center of the room did not appear to have any other unique features besides its side. Wanting to capture what he saw, Chelsen took out a spare piece of parchment and started sketching the tree and the surrounding lights. Hours passed as the tree’s outline soon turned into a detailed picture showing the barren roots and lower branches fading into an unending darkness.

The final sketch revealed that this tree was not only massive, but it was almost perfectly symmetrical from every angle. Odd roots that grew at the base of the tree and would reappear inches away were always equidistant. The lower set of branches looked  normal growing in random directions until Chelsen circled the tree and noticed that random pattern repeated. Every unique feature of the tree was actually just part of a pattern. Whatever caused the tree to grow did so in a pattern almost giving the allusion of something natural.

Chelsen looked back at his sketch that was almost symmetrical (with one light now missing from a torch holder) and recognized the outline of the tree trunk. He wasn’t sure from where, but the shape seemed familiar.

As perplexed as he was, Chelsen could not bear the hunger that now plagued his belly. It was time to go back to Iris as he was sure he had been out for far longer than he intended. Rather than stumbling back through the long corridors of complete darkness, Chelsen took out his new glowing sphere and held it out in front of himself to reveal that the hallways he traveled through were no ordinary hallways. The walls had more inscriptions of the mysterious language that was also on the sphere he was holding.

* * *

The next morning greeted Chelsen and Mith with the brutal sunlight that seeped through the windows of their house making it hard to sleep. Both of them slowly climbed down the loft and started at another day’s work felling trees and chopping logs into more manageable sizes to carry back to the village.

At this point the repetitive process left Chelsen numb to the physical labor. He had helped prepare Iris for winter for so many years at this point he didn’t really have to think of each step and just let his mind wander. The mysterious of last night still left him excited and bursting with questions. What was this unrecognizable language? How could a tree grow in such weird patterns? Did any other objects just naturally glow blue? All of these questions must have answers hidden within the minds of Iris, and Chelsen was determined to find out what those answers were.

By the end of the day Mith was satisfied with their work and let Chelsen go. Thankful for the break and free time, Chelsen’s first destination was Myrian. She had been in the village tending to everyone’s wounds long enough to know everyone. There was no avoiding the master of medicine as everyone eventually need to see her for some scrape or badly bruised part of their body. For a group of highly educated people, the villagers of Iris had a tendency to get hurt in some of the least intelligent ways.

Before Chelsen could even knock on Myrian’s door, it opened with her holding a basket in one arm and a blade in the other. “Hi Chelsen. What do you want?” As always her words came out with a bluntness that few people could match.

“I have a quick question if you have a moment.” Chelsen moved out of her way as she closed the front door and started walking out of Iris.

“Sure, but just a moment. Walk with me and ask.” She put the blade in her basket and waited for Chelsen to join.

“Alright.” They matched footsteps as they headed east towards The Great Scar. “Who here in the village knows about trees? Someone from the School of Nature I assume.”

Myrian smiled with amusement fluttering in her eyes. “Really? You already know who to go to Chelsen. He wouldn’t stop bothering you at the bonfire a few nights ago.”

Chelsen’s face immediately flushed. Of course he knew who to go to. Togtha had been arguing with Mith the whole night about the School of Nature and all the unnatural events that were apparently going to change the world. “Thanks Myrian. Where is his house again?”

She pointed left of where they were walking towards a rather peculiar house. The whole building stood crooked with a giant hole at the back that had an odd object sticking straight out of it. “Right there, you really can’t miss it.”
“Thanks again!” With Chelsen’s final comment they parted ways. Togtha’s house was even weirder up close. Vines covered one of the outside walls and the window that was barely visible covered by so much greenery. Multiple beams appeared to be propping the house up in a very precarious way. It almost looked like one person at night tripping on one of the beams might make the building fall down. The door was not cut like most other doors, with the top edge being slanted rather than being square. Every part of the house was covered in dirt making it look like it was part of the land. Chelsen knew this was not a very old house and he had lived in Iris longer than Togtha, and he was only fourteen.

Just as Chelsen went to knock on Togtha’s door yet again it opened with Togtha standing at the entrance. “Howdy Chelsen! What brings you around to this part of the village?” He had a huge smile that seemed far too enthusiastic for a random guest.

“I have a question for you Togtha, if you have a moment.” Chelsen peered past Togtha’s body inside the house to see that everyone on the outside was also mirrored on the inside. Vines grew on the walls, the table was actually just a tree stump, and even the loft was more of a poorly constructed set of branches than a solid platform. While Chelsen did want answers he really wasn’t looking forward to being crushed by a building that really did look like it was about to fall down at any second.

“Absolutely! Please come on in and ask!” Togtha motioned for Chelsen to enter and grabbed a couple logs for them to set on next to his stump-table. Apparently their firewood provided more than just warmth for some folks of Iris.

Chelsen pulled out his sketch and put it on the table pointing towards the symmetrical nature of the tree. “I found this in Volida’s Peak. Have you ever seen something like this before?”

Togtha picked up the sketch and held it sideways. “This is a nice drawing! I love the artistic expression. There’s a delicate balance between both sides of this sketch maybe symbolizing the beauty of nature.”

Before Togtha could go any further Chelsen interrupted. “No no, Togtha. I made that sketch. I didn’t find that parchment in Volida’s Peak, I found that tree I drew. That isn’t artistic expir-whatever you said. It’s real.”

The house went silent. Parchment crinkled as Togtha held the sketch far too close to his face. “Where’d you say you found such a tree? Also what is surrounding it?”
Losing faith that Togtha knew what he was talking about, Chelsen pulled out his map and pointed at Volida’s Peak. “Here, just out west of Iris.”
“I know that place! The view of the sky on that Peak is fantastic. That’s where I saw that meteor ascending into the sky…” He trailed off with glazed eyes as if lost in some deep thought.

“To answer your question of what is surrounding it, it was this.” Chelsen dug through his bag and placed the metal sphere that still was glowing blue.

“What in all of Domhain is that thing?” Togtha backed up slightly. “That is not natural.” Hesitantly he reached his hand out only to notice the blue particles emanating from the device moving away from his hand. “Most mysterious.” Togtha placed the parchment sketch on the table to pick up the sphere with both hands cradling the object. “I can promise you no one has seen something like this before.”

“Is nothing about this familiar?” Chelsen had the dreaded feeling that this might be a complete dead end.

“Well, this is all a lot to take in mostly because none of this is familiar. Where to start, where to start.” He placed the sphere back on the table and pointed at the sketch. “If you drew this tree as it truly was, it is a very unusual tree. Nature has patterns all the time. The way branches grow have a consistent and predictable chaos. While I could not predict exactly how a tree will look, I can confidently tell you how many branches will grow by a given time and the time frames to expect when a tree should fully mature depending on what type of tree it is.” His finger traced the pattern of the lower branches. “This, oddly enough, isn’t just contradictory to what I know, it is unnatural. It almost looks like someone from the School of Science manipulated this tree to grow a certain, predictable way. There is no chaos. As I mentioned before, this looks like art, not a sketch of pure observation.”

As Togtha traced the branches with his fingers the sketch moved next to Volida’s Peak that had been outlined on the map also sitting on the table. Side by side, Chelsen noticed something. The same outline of the trunk and roots and branches  on his sketch appeared to match his rough outline on his map. “Togtha, do you see this?” Chelsen’s finger traced the map’s outline and then sketch’s outline.

“Did you make both of these?” Togtha’s eyebrows started to scrunch and his eyes narrowed.

“Yes. This is both my map and sketch. It’s an odd coincidence that both outlines seem so similar. I’m guessing that is something that rarely appears in nature as well, right?”
Togtha grabbed a piece of parchment and started taking notes. “This is most certainly a unique phenomenon. While I cannot explain why these things are occurring, I can at the very least consult with the other scholars to see if they have any insights. Let me just write some things down.” His pen scribbled on the parchment taking note to the sketch and map as well as the ancient language that was inscribed on the metal sphere.
“If you would like, you can have the metal sphere,” Chelsen offered. “I imagine you could do a better job deciphering it than I could.”

“No no no no no. Absolutely not. I am already upset you took it from its natural spot and permanently disrupted the state of this odd place you’ve found. I can’t blame you for acting the way you did. I imagine your father would have done the same thing. The School of Science has always had a lack of respect with nature. I will advise you to stop following in this reckless behavior though. While it appears this object has no affect on us Umana, you obviously do not know the capabilities of this object.” Togtha finished scribbling notes and stood up. “Keep it for now and just try to not touch anything else while I go consult the other scholars.

Before he knew what was happening, Chelsen was picking up his belongings and walking out of Togtha’s house as he hurried toward other houses. That whole conversation left Chelsen with so many more questions left unanswered. The fact that not even Togtha knew anything about the object or the strange nature of the tree made the situation all the more mysterious.

Returning back home, Chelsen set up his map and sketch side by side staring at it hoping an answer would come. How was it possible that a cliff would resemble a tree growing inside it?
