---
layout: post
title: Chapter 10 - Trouble with Lorca
author: Gale Proulx
published: true
categories:
  - Unintentional Calamity
---

“Just give me one last try.” Lin was fiddling with a new contraption Fig and them had made a couple of weeks ago. One wood pillar held the sphere in place. Other wooden supports held up various needles and gears in place. The machine looked like it was built by a child, but it got the job done.

Now that they were familiar with the locking mechanism of the device, many of the seemingly random functions of the red glowing sphere were starting to make sense. It appeared that whatever or whomever had made this device was a genius. The small indented squares that went around the circumference of the sphere were buttons. In addition, some of the symbols covering the sphere were able to be rotated. From what Fig and Lin could figure out, it appeared that each symbol had to be in a specific rotated position with each square button pressed in a specific order to get into the sphere.

“I still say we give this method a try again. Got us just as far as that unlocking monstrosity you are trying to use.” Fig was juggling a hammer in her hands looking at the sphere. “If we just keep giving the lock a good wack it is bound to break at some point.”

“I admire that you have taken so kindly to my first real attempt to open this thing, but I think your machine here might actually work.” Lin swapped out some of the gears and realigned some of the chains connecting  them. Depending on how the device was set up, each needle would poke the sphere’s square buttons in a certain order. It appeared that this button pressing had to be done very quickly, as the buttons would often push back after a couple of seconds if they got the combination wrong. At least, this is what Lin and Fig had theorized up to this point. “As I said, one last try and we can be out of here.

Night was almost over, not that either of them could tell. All the windows were covered with parchment in fear that Lorcan might just decide to waltz by their lab again. The man had never been so bold as to interrupt them, but he did watch a couple of times. Although he had never told the council about the device they held, Lin didn’t like Lorcan knowing their secrets. They were sure he was up to something and they didn’t want to make his job any easier.

With all the needles aligned and the gears set in place, Lin quickly spun the crank. Button after button clicked until an abrupt screeching noise filled the room. The crank was jammed as the last needle fell into place. At first there was just silence as one of the symbols started glowing red.

“Can we go home now?” Fig asked.

“Um, Fig. I think I did it.” Lin stared at the symbol.

“Ha ha. You already did that to me once, I’m not falling for it again. You can walk yourself home for all I care.” She had started cleaning up the mess of parchment that was scattered around the room.

“No Fig, I’m serious, look!” Lin pointed at the symbol.

Her head turned around and her jaw dropped. “Really? It worked? Huh, I guess I can build something useful. Not going to lie, I’m a little annoyed that your the one who figured it out. I am, after all, the scholar-” she stopped talking as Lin laid a finger across her lips.

“What do you think we should do now?” Lin asked.

“Is that a pretty red button? I say we press it!” Her finger started racing towards the symbol.

“Wait! Fig I don’t-” just as Lin tried to finish their sentence Fig pressed the symbol into the sphere. The two halves separated forcing  red particles out of the device. Both of them coughed as they accidentally inhaled the cloud of red. They looked at each other only to notice that both of their faces were glowing red. As the seconds passed by the glowing became fainter and fainter until it faded completely.
“Oh Fig, what did you do?” Lin muttered.

“Woooo! That was exciting!” she exclaimed. “I mean it was a lot of work just to be showered in red dust but that glowing. I wonder what it was.” She looked back at the sphere that now had a giant gap in the middle of it. In the gap was a cube glowing bright with red energy. “You think that’s the source of the red stuff?” she asked.

“Why would I know that?” Lin slapped their palm to their forehead. “You know Fig, for being such a smart scholar, you really do ask some stupid questions.”

“Let’s see what this does!” Before Fig could touch yet another part of the sphere, Lin immediately reached out and grabbed her hand.

“Don’t you think that might be a really bad idea? We don’t know what that cube might do. You could glow red forever.” As Lin was saying this he wrestled with Fig to stop her from touching it.

“Lin, you stick in the mud! Have some fun with your exploration. No wonder you never joined the School of Science. You are way to cautious.” She eventually gave up and pouted. “Fine, what do you want to do then?”

“Observe it. See if it will burn us. Most things don’t glow that bright unless they are hot.” They grabbed a piece of parchment. “Watch closely.” Slowly they pushed the parchment closer to the cube. Eventually it touched the cube and nothing happened.
“See, we’ve learned nothing.” Without any warning, Fig launched her hand at the cube and snatched it. As soon as she got a hold of it, she started shrieking. Her hand started glowing red, then her arm, until her whole body was almost blinding.

“Let go! What are you doing?” Lin leaped over to Fig and tried to wrestle the cube out of her hand. Her muscles seized as Lin continued to wrench her hand open until the cube fell onto the ground. Slowly the red glow faded until it became clear that Fig was unconscious. “Oh no.” Lin held their ear to her mouth. The faintest breathing could still be heard. She was alive. “You really need to be more careful,” Lin said under their breath and they picked up Fig and moved them to lean against the wall. They looked back to see the cube sitting on the floor still. What did that cube do to not only knock out Fig, but also to cause her that much pain? Lin looked at Fig’s hand where the cube had been grasped finding red marks on places that had made contact. Her skin wasn’t burned, just marked.

Afraid that someone would find Lin in the room with an unconscious scholar, they quickly packed up the parchment and hid the contraption Fig had made. Very carefully, Lin slid the cube onto parchment and wrapped it multiple times before depositing it in their bag. The sphere still lay open on the table when they were done. Signing, they also stored the sphere in their bag and picked up Fig. “Come on, time to get you to the medicine wing. I’m sure one of your friends will not be thrilled when they see this.”

Halfway through the journey from the locksmith lab to the medicine wing, Lin realized just how suspicious this looked. Just before sunrise they were carrying their friend through the School of Science’s hallways without just going to get help. Hoping they would not have to run into anyone and answer questions they did not want to have to answer, they took a very roundabout way of getting to the medicine wing by going up a few floors and back down. Eventually they were knocking on the door of one of Fig’s friends.

“What do you want? It’s way to early to-” the friend immediately stopped talking. “What happened this time?”

“Not sure,” Lin responded. “Would you mind taking care of her? I unfortunately have a meeting I have to get to.”

The friend side-eyed Lin. “Sure. I guess I owe her enough to help this time.” Lin helped Fig into their room and rested her on a bed. “Are you sure you don’t know what happened?”

Unable to look them in the eye Lin said, “please don’t ask me that question.”

Sighing, the friend waved Lin out of the room and started tending to Fig. Relieved, Lin rushed out of the School of Science and up the hill to the council’s building. They had no idea how to proceed next. After far too many days to count, they had finally unlocked the strange device that came from the well of Last Stand Ruins. Unfortunately, it didn’t look like this device was safe. Could this have been what drove that ancient city to ruins in the first place?

Time passed by far too fast as Lin reached the entrance to the council’s building completely lost in thought. Lorcan, as usual, was standing outside with a grin on his face. “Welcome Lin. You’re a bit late.” The sun was just rising in the horizon.

“I know,” Lin said as they rushed through into the council chamber. Rather than being greeted by smiling faces, everyone looked rather disappointed.

“As I tried to say before, this is why I do not believe Lin is capable of leading this project!” Lorcan announced as he entered the chamber.

“Please do not start Lorcan. We will get to that matter in a moment. First I would like to make an announcement.” Lorcan was obviously surprised by her acknowledgment of his previous statement. “As many of you are probably aware of at this point, we have lost contact with the village of Iris. The Schools of Reasoning are very concerned at the moment. A few scholars were sent to investigate what had happened ten days ago and we have yet to hear back.”

“What are you suggesting?” Lin asked.

“Nothing at the moment,” the head of the council responded. “The way I see it, either something terrible has happened to Iris or they have gone crazy and started taking scholars hostage.”

“Both of those theories sound crazy,” a council member chimed in.

“Well,” the head of council continued. “Yes, they do sound like crazy theories. Keep in mind that village is filled with some of the most brilliant minds in the world. Scholars from all schools go there to study their fields in depth. I can’t imagine a small incident would have guessed such erratic behavior. Sadly, I think it might be sound to assume the unlikely.” People of the council started whispering to each other. “Until I get more information we will not speculate further! Let us move on to you, Lin. You too have been acting rather odd lately. Is there something you are not telling us about this expansion project?”

Everyone stared at Lin except Lorcan who was looking up smiling. Violence usually never occurred to Lin, but at this moment they really wanted to jump across the council table and punch him in the face. He had been looking towards this moment for so long and they were determined to never let him be satisfied.

Silence filled the room and Lin debated what to say next. They could tell everyone about the strange object and massive room buried beneath the grounds of the Last Stand Ruins.  This might help Lin at the current moment, but they were deathly afraid of what would come after revealing the truth. If Fig’s behavior was even the smallest reflection of how the School of Science would respond, the whole situation could be much worse. Lin knew they have no idea what they were dealing with and was not inclined to play with forces they didn’t understand. At least, they didn’t want to play with dangerous forces while other people were around.

“I am not hiding anything except my fatigue actually.” Lin lied. Lorcan’s face turned from a giant smile to concern. “You all know I have been staying up long nights thinking about this project and I have to admit it is starting to wear on me.” The head of the council’s face softened. “I know as a citizen of Saol I have shown much promise in the past couple of years. Unfortunately, I do believe I have been doing too much too fast. I think now is the time to hand this project off to someone else so I can rest.”

Yet again the council whispered. Lin’s eye twitched slightly at most everyone’s quick instincts to start talking to each other. They were always aware the council held secrets, but Lin never imagined themselves to now be holding one of their own.

“I appreciate the honesty Lin. We are in desperate need of this project to be complete, but I will not force it to completion at the expense of others,” the council head responded.

“It sounds like you need someone else to step into the role,” Lorcan interjected.
“And why would I do that? Lorcan, you have shown blatant disinterest in getting this project completed since the day it started. In fact, you have tried to kill this project from the first day. We will postpone this expansion until Lin can do it correctly.”

With those final words they continued onto the next subject. As Lin was prepared to leave, the head of the council dismissed them. Lorcan also tried to be dismissed only for the request to be rejected. Without waiting for her to change her mind, Lin left the council chamber and looked over Saol. They had lived here for the past five years making so many improvements to the largest town in all of Domhain. Sadly, it seemed it was already time to leave. Lin knew that there was no way they could study the affects of the cube in the town anymore. There was no way to get any peace and quiet without the chance that someone could interrupt. Keeping a secret was near impossible. They needed to leave, preferably far away from Lorcan.

Heading straight to their house, Lin collected all the belongings they thought they would need and headed to the market to pick up some food. They weren’t sure how long they were going to be isolated, but they figured it was better to be over-prepared rather than under-prepared.

When they finally gathered enough food to last tend of days, they set out just north of Last Stand Ruins. No one entered the forest between Last Stand Ruins and Loch. They figured it would be a good place to run the experiments they wanted without being noticed. Hopefully someone from the School of Nature wouldn’t notice the red glow that could potential come by the neighboring forest.
