---
layout: post
title: Chapter 4 - The Meteor
author: Gale Proulx
published: true
categories:
  - Unintentional Calamity
---

Two more days passed as Chelsen queried people around Iris trying to find an explanation for the tree inside Volida’s Peak and the blue emanating metal sphere that not a single scholar had seen before. Chelsen was in disbelief that he had discovered something that the world had not seen before. Although Iris was a small village that had not been around for longer than a couple of generations, it was still hard to believe no one was curious enough to explore around the town. Who knew what other strange things existed around the town of Iris.

On the night of the second day the village decided to gather around the bonfire yet again to discuss what was happening. Yet again, Chelsen was stuck between a bunch of scholars debating. Sure enough, Togtha and Mith were going at it again.
“We cannot simply know what Chelsen did and did not touch Mith!” Togtha’s voice was tight with emotion. “There is no way to know whether or not a key clue was disrupted by outside mishandling. He took also took an object from the shrine!” At this point Togtha and some other scholars had already visited Volida’s Peak. They had all come to the conclusion that the spherical room inside the peak was some kind of sacred area. For now it was just being called a shrine.

“Can you blame the young boy for his curiosity? As for this ‘mishandling,’ I beg to differ! We have no way of knowing if it was or wasn’t the right thing to do!” Mith was also starting to get very irritated. “Until you find some evidence that this tampering caused serious, irrevocable damage, let it go!”

The fire licked and lashed the cool night air mimicking the general vibe of the meeting. Myrian looked across the fire at a very unamused Chelsen sitting in the middle of the fight. Coming to his rescue again, Myrian sat up and walked over. “Boys, while I am not one to get in the middle of fight I would ask that next time you don’t talk about Chelsen as if he isn’t there.” She offered Chelsen a hand up. “We are going for a walk, so please feel free to resume the screaming match once we are out of sight.” Without looking back she started walking west out of town.

As they got further away from the fire a night sky full of stars revealed itself above their heads. Both of them walked in silence taking in the beautiful night sky. It wasn’t until they were at the edge of town that Chelsen broke the silence. “Thank you for saving me yet again.”

Myrian winked at Chelsen. “They like to act as if they’re adults, but in the end even scholars can behave like children. There’s no reason for you to sit through that.”
Children. The word sat in Chelsen’s brain for a few moments. Adults weren’t supposed to act like children. In fact, adults weren’t even supposed to be compared to children. Could Mith really be so immature? The thought had never occurred to him before. A father was always just that: a father. Chelsen found it hard to imagine him in any other context.

“Well, I do have quite the long day tomorrow, so I’m going to sleep. Just know that if you need anything feel free to knock on my door.” Myrian turned around heading back to her house. “Oh, also,” Myrian turned her head back. “Good luck with your mapping project.” She gave another wink and continued walking back towards her house.
Left in the field alone, Chelsen decided to head back to the shrine in Volida’s Peak. He was already at the edge of town and he should have enough time to get there and back before the night was over.

Traveling through the forest at night was typically quite peaceful, but the argument from earlier had shook Chelsen. By the time he reached the halfway point he had a distinct feeling that something was following him. Looking back, there was nothing but darkness.

After a couple of more steps he looked back again and saw nothing. Another step forward revealed nothing. Looking up into the canopy a set of purple eyes stared down at Chelsen. He froze in his tracks. Creatures typically didn’t settle east of Volida’s peak. The location of the village of Iris was very specifically chosen to be secluded. Although there was a luscious forest, it was not easy to get to. The mountains and huge river provided natural barriers that even migrating animals had a hard time traveling. The only easy way in or out of the valley they lived in was a small path to the south that led to Saol. It was almost the perfect location for scholars as anyone in the School of Reasoning who wanted a quiet space to study simply had to move north. As long as the scholar was in good shape, they could make the trip within seven days time.

To see an animal this far east was indeed a mystery. Although it was hard to see the body, Chelsen could guess from the eyes that this was a Planda. Few animals had glowing eyes that were always colored in stark contrast to the rest of their body. Even if the animal was relatively harmless to Umana, he still didn’t like the idea of being watched.
“Shoo! Go away, please!” Chelsen waved the Planda away, but it only got closer. “Great, I’ve made a new friend I guess.”

Continuing onto Volida’s Peak, Chelsen kept peering over his back every once in a while to see purple, glowing eyes following him from branch to branch. At least the creature had the courtesy of not coming too close to him.

Right before Chelsen was able to go back to the hallway leading to the shrine, the Planda approached him. Slightly afraid that the creature had suddenly decided to get closer, Chelsen pulled out his metal sphere and held  it in front of him. Blue light illuminated the entrance of the hallway revealing the shape of the Planda. A long, furry, cylindrical body was held up by four legs with razor sharp claws at the end of each leg. The head held two massive, glowing eyes. Within seconds, as the creature was bathed in blue light its fur slowly started changing to match the blue hue as its eyes changed to be a harsh orange. Its eyelids closed leaning its head away from the bright light making it almost invisible.

“Please don’t follow me in here. I know you don’t want to eat me but you can still kill me and that would make Mith really upset.” The Planda stayed still. “Come on!” Chelsen yelled at the creature but it did not budge. “Fine, you win.”

Chelsen continued into the hallway using the metal sphere as light until he got back to the shrine with the Planda trailing a few steps behind him. The shrine was untouched by the School of Nature scholars just as he was expecting. Unable to resist, Chelsen walked closer to the tree using the sphere to illuminate the bark of the tree. As he got closer something strange happened. The sphere started to glow brighter, and the illuminating blue particles emanating from the sphere stopped moving away from Chelsen’s hands. Something had changed. He waved his hand at the blue particles causing them to collide with his hand and rest there. Without warning, they sunk into his hand causing his fingers to briefly glow blue. From behind Chelsen he heard the Planda scream as it rushed out to another hallway.

“What is going on,” Chelsen asked himself. He waved his hand again this time catching more particles. This time his whole hand started glowing blue for a few seconds. Snapping his attention to his left hand that was clutching the sphere, he noticed that his upper left arm was starting to glow blue. Stunned, he dropped the sphere. It took a minute to pass before his stopped glowing. What did this mean? What had changed? Completely forgetting about the tree, Chelsen picked up the sphere again. The same effect happened, only this time it seemed faster. Lifting up his shirt sleeve, he could see some of his shoulder also glowed blue. A tingling spread from the left side of his body.

Panicked, Chelsen ran over to the torch holder where he had taken the sphere, put it back in place, and fell to the ground. It took a fair few minutes for the tingling sensation to go away, and even more for the blue glowing to stop. When everything seemed normal, Chelsen stood up and took deep breaths. Whatever had just happened to him, it was most certainly not normal. He had never heard of Myrian reporting anything like this before. He had no idea what had just happened to his body, and there was no way he was going to stick around to find out.

Worried that he might not be able to make it back to Iris, Chelsen started rushing back out of the hallway. Minutes passed as he shuffled through the darkness until moonlight finally revealed the exit. Bursting out into the clearing, he turned to the forest and started heading back to Iris. Before he could get into the forest, a loud crack that sounded like thunder burst overhead.

Falling from the sky was a meteor unlike anything Chelsen had seen. Although at first it appeared small, it gradually got larger and larger until it became apparent that the meteor was heading towards him. He rushed through the clearing and into the forest deathly afraid it might actually hit him or the peak right next to him. A minute later the everything shook for a moment causing him to fall onto the ground.

* * *

Chelsen knocked repeatedly on Myrian’s door until it opened. “I need help,” Chelsen spit out breathing heavily.

“What happened?” Myrian motioned for Chelsen to come in as she closed the door behind him.

“I don’t know. I returned to the shrine to put back the sphere when my arm suddenly,” he stopped. It never occurred to him that Myrian might not believe what he was about to tell her. She waited patiently for Chelsen to continue. “My arm and shoulder. It started glowing.”

“Wait, sphere? What are you talking about?” Myrian’s eyebrows arched.
Chelsen quickly explained his first journey inside Volida’s Peak and the sphere that he took.

“So that’s what Togtha was complaining about. Well I can’t say I approve of you tampering with things you do not understand but what is done is done.” Myrian started gathering herbs and started a small fire. “You say it affected you some way? It made you glow?”

“From inside me. Under my skin it looked like  there was a light glowing blue. Just like the sphere.” He rubbed him arm back and forth.
“Okay.” Myrian slowly started making tea nodding back and forth.  “How did you feel after your arm started glowing?”

Chelsen hesitated. How did he feel? At first panic took over because this was something he had never seen, but that panic wasn’t because of the sphere. Clearing his mind, Chelsen tried to focus on what he really felt at the moment. Setting aside fear, he felt awake. Not the feeling that you would get after a long run, but more so the feeling you would get after the best night of sleep you have ever had.

Lost in thought, Chelsen hadn’t even noticed Myrian who was inspecting his arm. “It doesn’t look like it changed anything. Your arm still looks like a normal arm.”

“Good to know. Now that you asked, I think I actually feel great. Before I was panicked but now I realize I feel fine.”

As Chelsen reported his great feelings Myrian’s eyes narrowed. “You feel fine? That’s a weird side affect.” She poured the tea into a couple of mugs and handed one to Chelsen. “Well, if you’re not in pain I wouldn’t worry about it. Obviously I don’t know much about this but I wouldn’t recommend repeating this experiment. Togtha is kind of right. You shouldn’t mess with what you don’t understand. The School of Nature, for all its overly dramatic caution, isn’t always wrong.” She took a sip of her tea and continued. “Just make sure you come back to me if anything does feel off. Also, drink your tea, it’ll help you sleep.”

After finishing their tea Chelsen set off for his house. As he passed the dwindling bonfire he still saw many School of Nature scholars sitting taking notes.
“Is everything okay,” Chelsen asked.

Only Togtha looked up to respond. “Did you not see that meteor? It passed right by us! We believe it landed near here. We are running calculations right now to see how close it landed.” Obviously not looking to talk any more, Togtha went back to his notes furiously writing in his journal.

Chelsen continued walking to his house until he reached the front gate where he could hear Mith’s snores echoing throughout the forest. His father was a truly extraordinary person when it came to sleeping. Somehow, Mith was able to be the loudest person in all of Iris when he slept yet would wake up to the smallest sounds if anything approached him. The only person who could sneak up on Mith was Chelsen, which took him years to learn how to do so. Small, silent steps was the key taking breaks in between each step to allow his snoring to return to its normal state. The closer Mith was to waking, the more irregular his snoring would be. If he was dead silent, Chelsen knew he was on the verge of waking up and had to wait a minute before continuing to the loft.
