---
layout: post
title: Chapter 7 - The Plague
author: Gale Proulx
published: true
categories:
  - Unintentional Calamity
---

It had been five days since the meteor fell on Volida’s Peak and unsurprising to Chelsen, its location still remained a mystery. Neither Togtha nor any of the villages were able to find any clues to what should have been a fairly obvious crater. Due to all the excitement, villagers of Iris were constantly bustling around yet again trying to figure out what was going on.

It had felt like everyone was going about trying to find answers except Mith who seemed determined to gather more firewood than ever before. Chelsen was fairly certain they were getting close to having enough wood to supply Iris for hundreds of days even after their dry stock of wood was used but this did not deter Mith. This morning, they were at it again felling trees and chopping them up despite everything that was going on. For whatever reason, Mith seemed to be rushing around even though they were far ahead of their normal schedule.

The sun was high in the sky when Mith finally allowed them to take a break. Sitting on the outskirts of Iris, Chelsen opened a leather bag that was storing his lunch consisting of some bread, various green leaves, and a jar of juice from various ground up fruits.

Just as Chelsen was about to dig into his lunch a man running through the forest came into view. Mith had initially not noticed him preoccupied with loading some wood up into their cart. It took a minute for the man to finally arrive, and when he did it became quite apparent that he was not in good health. Black bruises ran all over his body which seem to be flaking away with every step. It almost looked like he had been afflicted with the same sickness the Planda had been infected with earlier.

“Help! Please,” the man shouted. Chelsen and Mith immediately approached him. When they got within arms length the man collapsed. Mith swiftly put his arm under the man before he fell to the ground.

“What happened?” Mith asked.

“It’s Frelia. We…” the man stopped to catch his breath. “Terrible. Most people are dead. It’s almost like a plague. People are just, disappearing. Look.” The man poked one of his bruises causing blackened flakes of skin to float off and unravel into nothingness. “Poof. We are all disappearing.”

Mith turned to Chelsen in disbelief. They both stared at each other hoping the other would have an answer. “Maybe Myrian could help,” Chelsen offered.

“Right, I will take… what’s your name again?” Mith looked down at the man.
“Litir. Please, we have no time! You must send help before we have all perished!” Litir coughed and heaved.

“Not in your state. Besides, we can’t help you until we know what is going on. Can you walk?” Mith tried to lift Litir up.

“I believe so. Let’s hurry.” Slowly Litir got up onto his feet resting an arm over Mith’s shoulder.

“Chelsen, please chop and pick up the rest of the wood. I’ll be back hopefully soon.”

With those final words Mith was off as Chelsen continued his work. It took all afternoon to finish up the work they had started in the morning, but by sunset Chelsen got the last cart of wood back to his house exhausted. Mith had never returned to help out. Curious about what could possibly hold him up for so long, Chelsen headed off towards Myrian’s house.

As Chelsen strode across the village everything was quiet. Unlike the last couple of days, no one seemed to be moving. The stillness was disturbing. When Chelsen finally reached the center of town he saw why. It appeared that everyone was gathered at the center of the village including a newly bandaged Litir, Mith, and Myrian.

“Start back from the beginning Litir, if you are able to,” Mith asked. No one had noticed Chelsen had approached the crowd.

“There isn’t much to tell, but what I have to say is important,” Litir tried to continue talking only to get stuck in a coughing fit. It took a few moments for him to catch his breath. “Ten days ago a meteor descended from the sky down into Frelia. We’ve never seen anything like this happen, but even the folk of Frelia knew this was not natural. It didn’t take a scholar to see that what hit the ground in the middle of our village was not from this world.” Litir paused.

The whole crowd started to murmur. “I know, I know. You folks of Iris have always thought the villagers of Frelia are stupid, but I promise you this was not normal! The ‘meteor’ that fell from the sky was actually a metal object. It was perfectly smooth to the touch. When it landed, holes appeared in the side of the object and released a black mist. Some of the villagers nearby the object immediately started showing symptoms like my own.” Litir lifted one of the bandages on his leg revealing his sickly black bruise. “Just like the black mist that was released, we too are slowly turning into a mist of nothingness.” Again Litir went into a coughing fit.

“Thank you Litir. I think I can handle the rest,” Myrian said. “As you can see, this is some kind of sickness that no Umana has ever encountered. I do not know the cure, nor how it spreads. Litir has reported that apparently this sickness isn’t just limited to Umana. Apparently trees, houses, or any type of material that is or was once living can be consumed by this mysterious black mist.” Everyone started shaking their heads with concerned looks. “It’s only a matter of time before we are infected. We need to be searching for some way to fight it. From Litir’s recounting, it sounds like we have only have days before before people start dying by this sickness.”

A silence fell over Iris like never before. Everyone stopped moving stunned by the news. The air shifted from a curious nature to a much more ominous, anxious presence. Togtha pushed his way to the front of the crowd and started shouting. “Why did you let this man in? If he is sick then why let him infect all of us?”

“We didn’t know!” Myrain snapped. “None of us were aware of what happened in Frelia! I had to talk to Litir to find all of this out!”

“You shouldn’t have come here!” Togtha pointed at Litir. “You have doomed us all.”
It only took a few moments for others to start chiming in until the whole village was in a screaming match. While other villages probably would have flipped immediately into hysteria, the scholars of Iris seemed to default back to a heated debate. Chelsen, standing on the outside of the crowd wasn’t sure what to make of the situation. Rather than joining in, he headed home. Myrian was right. There was no point in blaming other people, they needed to find a cure. Chelsen wasn’t sure what he could do to help since his knowledge of medicine was quite limited, so instead he pulled out his map and drawing of the tree in Volida’s Peak and a new piece of parchment. He was convinced all of this was connected and now more than ever he was motivated to find out how and why.

***

Four days had passed since Litir had entered Iris and no one was showing signs of the same symptoms as Litir. While everyone was relieved that their impending doom was not yet visible, there was still a certain tension in the air that was not there before. Villagers were much more irritable than before. Scholars continued to bustle around the village trying to find answers, while Mith continued to do the same job of collecting firewood. When morning hit, Chelsen was infuriated to see Mith yet again preparing the cart.

Jumping out from the loft, Chelsen confronted Mith. “What are you doing?”
Getting up from the cart, Mith turned to face Chelsen. “Getting the cart ready, we need to continue getting firewood.”

“Firewood? Are you serious?” Chelsen’s face started to turn a deep shade of red. “Why are you not helping out everyone else?”

“I am helping everyone else! This work still has to be done.” Mith was shouting at Chelsen. “Do you think this job just magically goes on when we decide to stop working?”

“If there is a tomorrow! We don’t even know that. Chances are, we are going to die within a few days anyways.” As Chelsen said this tears appeared in Mith’s eyes. “Why are you acting like everything is okay?”

“I don’t want to make the situation worse!” Mith’s voice boomed throughout the forest. “The last time I tried to ‘help’ with something I wasn’t familiar with, someone died. I don’t work with medicine, how am I supposed to help?”

“I don’t know. I don’t have the answers,” Chelsen murmured afraid to speak up.

“Well there you go! So either you can sit there and be useless, or you can help me prepare for a future that we will hopefully all get to enjoy when Myrian cracks this case.” Mith went back to the cart.

Chelsen’s fists clenched. Blood rushed through his ears making it hard to hear anything. “No,” he stated.

“What?” Mith looked over his shoulder.

“No,” Chelsen stated again. “I’m not sitting idly by and putting this all on Myrian. We have to help out. If she can’t fix this then we are all dead! I refuse to sit here helpless. I’m sure Volida would feel the same way.”

Silence fell as Mith stopped what he was doing. “Don’t you ever lecture me on how Volida would feel.” Mith turned around and took a step towards Chelsen. “They were my friend and now they are dead! They died because of me! You cannot be so reckless! Just because you think you can help everyone through sheer willpower doesn’t mean you can. Sometimes the best thing to do is let others hold a responsibility you wish to hold.” Words flung out of Mith’s mouth with such distaste. “Your mother would be sickened if she saw you now.”

Tears immediately welled in Chelsen’s eyes.

“Wait, Chelsen. I’m sorry, I didn’t…” Mith trailed off.

Without waiting for a response, Chelsen grabbed his bag and ran into the forest. Mith watched as his son fled away. Sighing, he let his head fall onto the cart in defeat.
Trees flew past Chelsen as he ran at full speed away from his house. Anger and sorrow filled his head. He didn’t care where he was running, he just wanted to be as far away from his father as possible. He kept running until his throat was raw and there were no more tears left to cry. Exhausted, he fell onto the ground and curled up still crying.

The sun was still rising up into the sky when Chelsen finally calmed down. As he lay in the underbrush of the forest his mind slowly slipped from the pain Mith had given him onto Litir. The man had left Iris the day after he came in hopes that he could say goodbye to some of the last people remaining in Frelia before he died with the last survivors. He was really hoping that Iris would have an answer since so many scholars from the School of Science were present, but he was quite obviously thoroughly disappointed.

Every scholar of Iris was hitting dead ends. No one could explain why a metal object would fall from the sky, how the black mist spread or infected Umana, or even if we were infected. No one was showing symptoms, but no one was sure if it took days for someone to show symptoms.

If no one from Iris was of any help, maybe everyone should be looking elsewhere. Getting up, Chelsen headed towards Volida’s Peak in hopes that the strange tree and blue orbs might have the hidden answers they needed.

It was midday by the time Chelsen neared Volida’s Peak. As the treeline ceased daylight did not pierce into the field. Instead, the landscape transformed into a colorless mass with black particulars floating in the air. All the grass was already decaying or disintegrated leaving a dirt-ridden ground. Some of the trees at the edge of the forest were starting to lose their leaves almost as if an artist had forgot to paint the rest of the treeline. Even the cliffs that normally bared some form of moss on the rocks was now completely bare. All life seemed to have simply stopped existing.

Hesitantly, Chelsen walked into the middle of the field. The air smelled raw and dry like dirt and stone. He didn’t feel any different as he breathed in the black dust but this didn’t stop his body from shuddering. Pushing towards the south part of the cliffs, Chelsen almost became disoriented by the newly transformed landscape. It was almost as if the land had been trimmed of all life only to leave an outline of what had once been there. What could have possibly caused this? Chelsen thought.

As he approached the entrance he had traveled through so many times before he noticed something was different. Obviously the rock-face was now bare with no vines or underbrush to hide the entrance. Whatever the black mist was, it had made sure to leave no trace of life. The entrance, Chelsen noticed, was simply not there. The cliff ran down naturally like there had never been a carved out entrance in the first place.

Questioning himself, Chelsen doubled back to see if he had followed the correct path. Even in the barren ground Chelsen was still able to see this was indeed the very path he would take to get to the very spot that was supposed to open up into Volida’s Peak. This could not have been a coincidence. Yet again, strange events occurred so close to each other. It was hard to not feel like this whole set of events wasn’t some conspiracy.
Unsure of what to do next, Chelsen turned around and wandered back towards Iris. He wasn’t sure anyone would believe him or if the information was helpful, but he figured the people of Iris should probably know.

By the time Chelsen reached the edge of the village he was starving. Out in the distance he could see both Myrian and Mith talking to each other. It only took a few moments for them to notice Chelsen as he walked towards the center of the village. Both of their worried looks turned into smiles, and then back into dread. Their eyes weren’t looking directly at Chelsen as they approached him.

“I need to tell the village something,” Chelsen reported. Neither of them responded. Both were still not looking directly at his eyes. “Can you please gather everyone? It’s important.” They both stayed silent. “What is going on?”

Myrian took a deep breath before speaking. “Chelsen, your forehead.” She led him over to a barrel of water so he could look at his reflection. As Chelsen lifted his head over the barrel he could clearly see a black bruise on the left side of his forehead. It appeared he was the first to show symptoms.

Mith gave Chelsen a hug as he started sobbing. Myrian joined in. The weight of more than the both of them weighed on Chelsen’s shoulders at that moment. Reality set in. This was no longer a game. His days were numbered.
