---
layout: post
title: Chapter 6 - The Message
author: Gale Proulx
published: true
categories:
  - Unintentional Calamity
---

Between the second meteor, the discovery of the tree inside Volida’s Peak, and the strange blue glowing objects Chelsen had discovered, the town of Iris looked chaotic compared to how it looked when summer first started. The School of Nature Scholars were constantly conferring with the School of Science. The School of Technology scholars were taking sketches of the blue sphere located inside Volida’s Peak to further investigate how they worked. (Neither the School of Nature nor the School of Science approved of any scholar taking one out just as Chelsen had accidentally done.)

Despite all the excitement, Mith still carried on with his duties as if nothing had changed. As far as he was concerned, winter was approaching and he did not want a single person to freeze to death because he didn’t do his job. Unfortunately, this meant that Chelsen still had to help him out whenever Togtha wasn’t trying to pull him away to ask questions about his interactions with Volida’s Peak and the blue spheres.
It wasn’t until night that Chelsen was free to join the now daily bonfires the village was having to discuss everything that was going on. (The increased demand in wood did not help with Mith’s stress.)

“It still stands that we have no idea how such a feat is possible. How can a tree grow inside a cliff with no sunlight? Also how did someone construct that room in the first place? Hallowing out a cliff is no easy task.” Togtha was in the middle of the conversation  always asking the questions regardless if others actually wanted to answer his questions.

Scholars from all three schools went into a quick debate as Chelsen and Myrian sat at the outside of the conversation.

“Why aren’t you joining them?” Chelsen asked.

“Who, me? There’s not much medicine can do to fix this issue,” Myrian responded.

“I guess. Still doesn’t mean you can’t help. What do you think is going on?” Chelsen looked up into the night sky.

“I wish I had an answer for you, but I think I’m just as confused as they are.” Myrian sighed while she laid on her back looking up into the night sky. “I can promise you these events are not natural. A lot of things are happening at once and I do not believe it is a coincidence.” Just as Myrian finished her sentence, almost as if on command, another meteor appeared in the sky. “There’s no way…” her voice trailed off.

Both Chelsen and Myrian looked up in disbelief. Another meteor was not only yet again falling from the sky, but it looked like it was heading towards their direction. “Hey, look up,” shouted Chelsen to the rest of the group still hotly debating what all this could mean. All the scholars at the bonfire looked up at the flaming ball hurtling towards Iris.

“That is so unlikely. What are the chances,” Togtha too trailed off and just watched in disbelief. Everyone went silent around the bonfire leaving the crackling wood pulsating and snapping to echo in the clearing. Although it had only been a few minutes, it felt like hours watching the meteor hurl towards them. No one moved. Too many people in Iris knew how unlikely it would be to survive a meteor more or less calculate exactly where it would land. The air breathed an acceptance of fate so silent it chilled Chelsen to the bone.

When the meteor finally felt like it couldn’t get any closer, it descended across the horizon to the west. It was almost as if the meteor was slowing down to land on Volida’s Peak. The peak’s cliffs were impossible to see from where they were standing, but there was no doubt that was the location it was heading too. Any suggestion otherwise would have been far too optimistic.

A deep shock-wave pulsated through the ground causing everyone to stumble. Some of the villagers exited their houses to find out what was going on. Soon a commotion started as all the scholars rushed towards their homes.

“Gather your belongings! We must investigate immediately! This type of event may never happen again in our lifetimes!” Togtha was yet again shouting in the middle of the village as people rushed passed him. “Meet at the west side of the village! We shall travel together.”

Chelsen looked over at Myrian. Her face was filled with dread. “What’s wrong?” Chelsen asked.

“Events like this occurring one after another. Change seems to be more common than ever before. I hate change.” Myrian picked herself up as she said this and headed towards the west.

“Where are you going?” Chelsen chased after her.

“I want to get there first and make sure no one climbs up that damned peak in the middle of the night,” she responded.

Footsteps pounded the ground behind Chelsen straight past him towards Myrian. Mith was running at full speed shouting “Myrian wait!”

Unsure of what to do next, Chelsen followed them both west of the village and into the woods trying to catch up. It was hard to see transitioning from a bright bonfire into the pitch black forest below. The thickets and bramble Chelsen had passed so many times before seemed to all be in the way when he was running. The whole situation was disorienting. Myrian must have been right, Chelsen thought. This could not have been a coincidence. A meteor flies up into the sky. Even he knew this was impossible. He just happens to find a cave no one had seen before. The whole thing felt orchestrated.
Even after tripping and stumbling his way through the forest, Chelsen was able to catch up to Myrian and Mith who both looked more stressed than Chelsen had ever seen before. Neither of them took notice to Chelsen’s presence.

“You know what is going to happen next? Someone’s going to trip and fall and we’ll have to the name the peak ‘Scholar’s Fall’ for the love of Reasoning!” Mith voice was horse and raised despite the fact that the forest was almost perfectly silent.

“Don’t tell me twice! The damned fools don’t know what they’re dealing with. I’ve been through enough already, I don’t need more people in this community dying!” Myrian matched Mith’s volume much to Chelsen’s discomfort.

Not sure what to say, Chelsen trailed behind for a short while until he saw a familiar sight: two glowing eyes yet again followed him in the dark. Unlike last time, the eyes were growing a bright white. It wasn’t a natural color at all, but instead it was cold. He stopped and shouted over to Myrian and Mith, “stop for a second! Please!” Both of them apparently did not notice and kept shouting their way to Volida’s Peak.

Annoyed by their blissful ignorance, Chelsen pushed on. Within a few more minutes they had made it to the peak out of breath. Not a single scholar was to be seen.
“Thank Reasoning we made it. Hopefully we can talk some… sense… to… them…” Mith was having trouble saying anything else as he wheezed.

“Can I please… talk to you.” Chelsen approached the to.

“Of course, now that we are here,” Myrian said.

“Look behind us, you missed the Planda that’s been on our trail the whole time.”

All three of them looked into the forest to see a white pair of eyes staring back at them. Chelsen wasn’t absolutely sure, but the white glow did seem dimmer than just a few minutes earlier. Mith walked towards the creature and knelt in the middle of the clearing trying to persuade the Planda to come towards him making weird noises with his mouth. Sure enough, the creature did get closer. When it finally exited the forest and into the clearing under the moonlight, Chelsen saw why the creature’s eyes were glowing white.

All cross it’s body were black streaks as if someone had painted charcoal in a very odd pattern. Normally a Planda would change its color to its surroundings, but this one was a majority of black and sickly gray. It approached Mith with a limp and came to rest at his knee.

“Oh my, what happened to you?” Mith petted the Planda only to find the black streaks flaking off into the wind whenever he touched it. He looked up with a confused expression to Myrian who was also approaching the creature.

“It’s just one thing after another.” Myrian brushed her hand against the black streak and saw more of the Planda’s fur disintegrate before her very eyes. Her head started shaking. “What is going on here?”

Before anyone could say anything a group of scholars appeared out of the forest heading towards the peak. Mith and Myrian broke their attention from the Planda and ran towards the group shouting grabbing everyone’s attention.

“You absolutely cannot do this tonight!” Mith shouted. “Don’t you dare climb those cliffs.”

“Why shouldn’t we?” A voice shouted from the crowd.

“Are you kidding me? Why do you think those cliffs are named Volida’s Peak?” Mith shouted back.

Togtha appeared out of the crowd to face Mith. “I know what you are scared of my friend. Rest assured, I won’t let that happen. No one here has the intention of climbing tonight.” Togtha turned around to the crowd. “Right?” he shouted. No one said otherwise. “See, you have nothing to worry about.”

Both Mith and Myrian looked at each other in disbelief. Of all the people to agree with them, Togtha was not the one they would have placed bets on.

“Do you not remember? I came to this village before you two,” Togtha stated as a matter of fact. “Am I really that stupid to the both of you?” Both Myrian and Mith looked as if they were about to say yes. “Really? Come on! I reinvented the constellation map for crying out loud!” Togtha only got eye rolls in response. “It was an important invention!” Someone in the crowd gave an awkward cough. “Okay fine, I give up for now. Let’s just search for that meteor. And please don’t climb!”

The crowd dispersed north and south of the cliff in teams. When Mith and Myrian looked back, the Planda was gone. Not even Chelsen noticed when it sneaked off. Unable to shirk off a sinking feeling in his stomach, Chelsen approached Mith and Myrian.

“Dad, Myrian. I want to check something. Will you come with me?” They both looked surprised but nodded nonetheless. Without another word they rounded the south side of Volida’s Peak and went through the same entrance that led to the mysterious chamber. Unlike everything else that was changing, this room had stayed the same. Torch-holders still held blue light and the tree in the middle was still growing.
“So this is what everyone has been talking about?” Mith asked. He went up to a torch-holder and picked up a blue sphere. His arm started glowing blue as well. “Well, this is unusual. Feels weird.”

“Dad! Why did you pick that up?” Chelsen ran over and smacked the sphere out of his hands.

“What? I was curious? There’s a reason why I studied at the School of Science, not Nature. I like figuring out how stuff works. Can’t do that easily if you just try looking at it.

To Chelsen’s surprise, Myrian was doing the same thing. Her arm also glowed blue. “Myrian,” Chelsen shouted. He yet again went up to her and thrust the object out of her hand. “What is wrong with the both of you! We have no idea what those objects do! I know you don’t like Togtha, but he is right about one thing: we need to be careful with what we don’t understand.”

“Alright, fine. I won’t fight you. Mith’s right, whatever that blue light is it doesn't feel great.” She took a step back from the torch-holder. “If you didn’t want us touching this stuff why did you bring us here?” Myrian asked. Her right eyebrow was twitching slightly as she messaged her hand.

“Honestly, I’m not sure. I wanted to just check and see if anything was off here. I didn’t want to go alone. Not right now.” Chelsen moved towards the center tree. Everything about it looked like how he remembered it except for one dip in the trunk of the tree. He had traced and stared at the tracing of the tree for so many hours trying to figure out what it meant. The silhouette of this true was almost ingrained in Chelsen’s mind forever. That silhouette never included a new dip in the bark. It was almost as if someone had some up and punched a whole into the tree. “Why would this change as well?” Chelsen thought out loud. “A meteor comes down and happens to land on this peak, and all of a sudden the tree changes. This is going to drive me insane.”
Mith approached the tree and ran his hand over the bark. “It looks like a normal tree to me if we disregard how abnormally symmetrical it is.”

“Dad, really? I said no touching!” Mith immediately his hand away and gave Chelsen a shrug. “I’m telling you, this tree has changed shape. Is that something trees normally do?” Chelsen looked at Mith only to get no response. He turned towards Myrian who also gave a shrug. Panicked, Chelsen sat down as tears started pouring down his face. “Why is this happening? The world feels like its falling apart. Iris is supposed to be a village filled with some of the greatest minds in the world and yet none of you can explain what is going on.”

“Oh buddy,” Myrian said as she walked over to Chelsen. “That is exactly why were are here. We are scholars not because we have the answers to everything in the universe, but because we know what questions to ask. We’re really good at approaching the toughest of problems and figuring out a solution. You know, this isn’t the first time something strange has happened.”

“Really? Tell me what is more strange than this.” Chelsen wiped some tears from his face
.
“Trying to call a bluff, aren’t you. That’s why I like you.” Myrian sat down next to Chelsen and sighed. “Let’s see, what could possibly match this set of events. Oh, I know! Have you ever heard of a Cinniuint?”
Chelsen shook his head.

Myrian gave Mith a dirty look causing him to shy away before turning back to Chelsen. “You see, back when the School of Nature first started centuries ago, there were these mysterious creatures called Cinniuint roaming the land. They looked very similar to creatures you see every day like Planda or Feoil with one important difference: they were colossal versions of smaller creatures. While a Planda may have a small chance of being taller than knee-height, a Cinniuint Planda would dwarf trees!”
“This sounds like a children’s story. If giant Cinniuint roamed the earth then why haven’t I seen any,” Chelsen asked.

“You aren’t listening, I said this was centuries ago! Also this is my story, stop butting in.” Myrian gave Chelsen a friendly nudge. “As I said before the School of Nature had just started so they had a very small pool of knowledge. No one knew why Cinniuint existed, they just knew sometimes normal creatures grew to colossal heights making them Cinniuint. There was only one thing each of these creatures had in common: the Wild Moon. Each creature always had a stone lodged into their side that would glow bright blue. They called these blue glowing stones Wild Moons because in the dead of night when Cinniuint roamed, you could see these blue glowing stones in the distance.”

“I think I get it. At night all you would see is a glowing blue object moving in the distance. A moon that moved wildly,” Chelsen added.

“Exactly. See, we name things sensibly sometimes. Anyways, scholars over the centuries observed these creatures from afar at great risk of being killed and eventually traced the Cinniuint’s paths to a central location. All Cinniuint come from Cloud Breaker Mountain just West of Frelia and Iris. It is believed that the blue glowing stones come from that location. No one from the School of Nature is ever allowed to go there because bandits and dangerous animals love to roam that area, but scholars are quite sure that mountain holds the answers to so many questions.” Myrian finished her explanation satisfied with Chelsen’s newfound attention.

“I don’t know if that really compares to what is happening now. I mean, a meteor did ascend up into the sky only days before,” Chelsen pointed out. “Also, it doesn’t explain why I haven’t seen a Cinniuint.”

“Oh come on! Giant creatures! Blue glowing stones! And you haven’t seen one because you haven’t been to Cloud Breaker Mountain. Trust me, they are definitely there. Mith loved to watch them.”

Mith shifted uncomfortably on the wall he was leaning on. “Wait a second.” Chelsen’s eyebrow started twitching. “Dad, didn’t you rock climb west of Frelia? Isn’t that where you got hurt?”

Mith immediately pinched the bridge of his nose scrunching his face. “Myrian,” Mith said. “Why do you do this to me?”

“If you won’t tell the boy someone eventually will.” She crossed her arms satisfied with herself.

“Yes, Chelsen, that is where I got hurt.”

“You were trying to find a Cinniuint, weren’t you,” Chelsen interrupted.

Mith sighed before continuing. “Regrettably, yes. I was younger, I was reckless. Sure, hundreds of Umana before me tried to get a glimpse of those beasts only to be slaughtered. I didn’t think I would ever be another body to add to that number. As you already know, I was wrong. Or maybe I wasn’t wrong but more almost wrong. I do have to admit it was one of the most intense rock climbing experiences I have ever had.”
“If you ever complain about me being reckless ever again, just know that I’m not listening,” Chelsen stated as a matter of fact to Mith.

“Alright, I think we’ve done enough here, let’s go,” Mith spit out as he immediately started heading towards the hallway they had entered from. Myrian and Chelsen got up and followed him far too tired to disagree.
