---
layout: post
title: Goodbye
author: Gale Striker
published: false
categories: Alternative_History
---

April 15, 1861

Dear Clara,

Due to recent events I can only imagine the worry you must have. The States have never seen such atrocities committed on such a whim, yet here we are. Rather, here you are lost reading this note. It gives me great grievances to report that president Lincoln has called upon state militia to join a fight much greater than himself. As if the damn fool knows what he is setting off. While I wish to see you Monday as I have every week for the past five years, I am unfortunately committed to keeping this country alive. Before you forsake my actions and block me from your memory, I plead that you give me one last chance to explain myself. Our relationship has been nothing but pivotal to my personal growth and acceptance of the terrible fate that has befallen me. I would have not survived my past had you not been there. This note, at the very least, attempts to repay the life saving debt you have given.

From my perspective, the start of this war did not feel aggressive in any manner. How would anyone have predicted the deep seated hate the North and South have for each other? Politicians be damned for always hating one another, but the people themselves? Unthinkable to this extent. While I do not agree with the atrocities committed by our Southern neighbors, torching towns and killing family is no way to solve any conflict. No matter what our commanding officer Grant thinks, this war cannot be solved by completely exterminating the other side. Too long have Americans tried to shoot their way through conflict. Too many lives have been abruptly ended by such fruitless objectives.

You know I cannot stand for injustices which is the exact reason as to why I left. Even if this war only promises death, I must accompany the militia and make best of a situation I should have started solving long ago. Tensions have risen between the South and North for years now while I looked idly by. It is hard to want to break the perfect world you have lived in regardless of how many people suffer. No one wants to jump into a world of torment if you can avoid it. Unfortunately, there are many slaves who have to live in a hellish world every day so we could live peacefully. They cannot avoid it. They cannot hide it. They cannot escape it.

If anything, this civil war has shown that my inaction is part of the reason this whole charade has started. My inaction has caused suffering, and now I must go to repent for my crimes. You see, I wish to be with you every day until I die, but that is not possible. Forget the taboo culture, even if this future were possible I could not live knowing I did nothing to help the Americans being enslaved all throughout the country.

I do not expect you to follow me. Unlike your situation, my husband was easy enough to run away from as he hardly notices I am there in the first place. In regards to the militia, I would not worry about myself getting caught. Most men easily mistake me for a man, which makes me the perfect candidate to be a soldier by their side. Besides, you always had known me to be pleasantly satisfied dressing up in an officers uniform. This should not be a shock.

Your story, unfortunately, is destined to travel a separate path. If you wish to support my endeavor, please do so without a gun. Rather than fight this senseless fight, please find out why this tragic history came to be. No man will take the time to think through recent events, so I encourage you to figure this out for them.

While I do not have your picture, I do keep your name close to my heart. Forever and always, you will be with me.

Sincerely your partner for life,

Jamie
