---
layout: post
title: Recounting of Steel
author: Gale Proulx
published: false
categories: Fantasy
---

"Yes Fade, I am The Creator!" Flames burst from the floor behind The Creator. Pillars started tumbling down as the palace buckled. Fade blinked a couple of times, threw her hair back, and looked down the sight of her rifle. Typical villain with a typical agenda. She had plenty of time. After all, the villain’s speech was only half over. "Everything you love and cherish I will destroy! This palace is just the start. I'll destroy every place of worship that does not honor me! Nothing can stop me." Fade casually slide a glowing green bullet into the chamber. Her fingers traced the side of engraved barrel. Gold and sapphire glittered on the side of the gun telling of a great story lost in time. "Bow before me and I will spare you. Defy me, and I will make your namesake the thing that defines you. You will fade away from history, just like your name." Fade smirked. Her name was famous, but long before this power-hungry mongrel decided to meddle with magic far beyond The Creator's comprehension. Fade widened her stance just to be sure she didn't have to make a second shot. "What are you doing? Pointing a stick at me as if it will have any affect. Nothing can break my magic. I am-" Fade pulled the trigger. The all mighty creator dropped dead onto the floor along with the pyrotechnics show in the background. The glowing green bullet (now red with blood) was stuck in tact to the wall behind.

"Why do they always have to make a speech?" Fade muttered to herself. With a little dance in her step, she skipped right past The Creator's body and climbed the wall. Bullet safely in her hip poach, Fade backflipped back onto the ground, landing in a power pose. Nothing in the palace looked the same after that small interaction. One pillar in the palace stood untouched. Everything else was cut in half or melted. Even the ceiling was letting in a considerable amount more of sunlight than before. None of the stained glass windows were saved. "What a shame." 

Behind the cracked altar was a small, stone passageway that led underground. Along the walls were carved stories of ancient times that slid between her fingers as she descended the metal stairs. Slowly the tales transitioned from the birth of magic to the birth of technology. Soon after the melding of these two ideas grew birth to buildings far taller than should be possible, and tools that reached much farther than they appeared. These celebrations of two schools of thought connecting developed a society that produced great creativity and destruction. The gun slung across Fade's back ocassionally tapped against the stories lost to time but not to these walls.

Exiting the staircase led straight to a pitch black cavern with only clattering of the catwalk filling the space. With a snap of her fingers, the glowing green pullet nuzzled its way out of the pouch and into her hand, illuminating a magnificant room decorated with gems unlike any others. A metal catwalk surrounded an airship just big enough to house one person for a long journey. Part of the envelope was damaged during The Creator's ruckus, forcing the ship to rely on the ropes tying it down for support to keep it up. "Thank you Creator, now I have my work cut out for me."

Fade swong the gun off her back and rested it on the gaurd rail. The green bullet floated out of her hand beside her, still illuminating the hanger. Taking in a deep breath, she started to reinact the magical stances she learned so long ago. Within minutes the cavern started eminating the same green glow of the magic bullet. Rocks and debris started flying back into the ceiling of the hanger fitting perfectly with each piece that broke off. Soon the rocks that broke apart molded back together. Parts of the catwalk bending under the pressure sprang back into their normal, rigid position as the envelope of the aircraft zipped back up. Ropes that were broken and strained tightened up and refolded back onto the catwalk guard rails. Everything was back in place as if nothing had been touched. Fade stopped making the motions and wiped the sweat off her forhead. Picking up her rifle and calling back the bullet into her hand, she lazily walked to the deck of the airship and opened the tiny cabin door. A small bed (meant for someone smaller) acted as a chair for the short desk resting next to a window. Drawers under the bed revealed notes and momentos of various journeys. A spyglass with a cracked lens, blueprints to the airship, 
